when the Lord your God has cut off the
nation's whose land the Lord your God is
giving you and you dispossessed them and
dwell in their cities and in their
houses you shall separate three cities
for yourself in the midst of your land
which the Lord your God is giving you to
possess you shall prepare roads for
yourself and divided into three parts
the territory of your land which the
Lord your God is giving you to inherit
that any man Slayer may flee there and
this is the case of the man's Slayer who
flees there that he may live whoever
kills his neighbor unintentionally not
having hated him in time passed as when
a man goes to the woods with his
neighbor to cut timber and his hand
swings a stroke with the axe to cut down
the tree and the head slips from the
handle and strikes his neighbor so that
he dies he shall flee to one of these
cities and live lest the Avenger of
blood while his anger is hot
pursue the manslayer and overtake him
because the way is long and kill him
though he was not deserving of death
since he had not hated the victim in
time pass therefore I command you saying
you shall separate three cities for
yourself now if the Lord your God
enlarges your territory as he swore to
your father's and gives you the land
which he promised to give to your
father's and if you keep all these
Commandments and do them which I command
you today to love the Lord your God and
to walk always in his ways
then you shall had three more cities for
yourself besides these three blessed
innocent blood be shed in the midst of
your land which the Lord your God is
giving you as an inheritance and thus
guilt of bloodshed be upon you but if
anyone hates his neighbor lies in wait
for him rises against him and strikes
him mortally so that he dies and he
flees to one of these cities then the
elders of his City shall send and bring
him from there and deliver him over to
the hand
the Avenger of blood that he made I your
I shall not pity him
but you shall put away the guilt of
innocent blood from Israel that it may
go well with you you shall not remove
your neighbor's landmark which the men
of old have set in your inheritance
which you will inherit in the land that
the Lord your God is giving you to
possess one witness shall not rise
against him and concerning any iniquity
or any sin that he commits by the mouth
of two or three witnesses the matter
shall be established if a false witness
rises against any man to testify against
him of wrongdoing then both men in the
controversy shall stand before the Lord
before the priests and the judges who
serve in those days and the judges shall
make careful inquiry and indeed if the
witness is a false witness
who has testified falsely against his
brother then you shall do to him as he
thought to have done
to his brother so you shall put away the
evil from among you and those who remain
shall hear and fear and hereafter they
shall not again commit such evil among
you your I shall not pity life shall be
for life eye for eye tooth for tooth
hand for hand foot for foot
[Music]
you